Specify how entities returned by $compute are explicitly included in the response (#2059)
oasis-tcs/odata-specs: odata-protocol/11 Data Service Requests.md

#### ##subsubsubsec System Query Option `$compute`

The `$compute` system query option allows clients to define computed
properties that can be used in [`$expand`](#SystemQueryOptionexpand),
[`$select`](#SystemQueryOptionselect),
[`$filter`](#SystemQueryOptionfilter), or
[`$orderby`](#SystemQueryOptionorderby).
They are treated according to their instance-specific type, with the addition that they are silently ignored in `$expand` if the instance-specific value is neither a stream, an entity, or a collection of entities.
But if the service can infer the that a computed property's type makes it unsuitable for `$expand` independently of the underlying data, it MUST reject the request
The inferral can be based on, for example, the
declared type of a property or the type of a literal value that occurs in the

> expression in the compute instruction.

Author: ```suggestion
compute instruction.
```

> They are treated according to their instance-specific type, with the addition that they are silently ignored in `$expand` if the instance-specific value is neither a stream, an entity, or a collection of entities.
> If the service can infer that a computed property's type makes it unsuitable for `$expand` independently of the underlying data, it MUST reject the request.
> The inferral can be based on, for example, the
> declared type of a property or the type of a literal value that occurs in the
> compute instruction.
> 
> Computed properties SHOULD be included as dynamic properties in the result without being explicitly mentioned in `$expand`or `$select`, or implied by star (`*`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `$compute` system query option allows clients to define computed properties that can be used in [`$expand`](#SystemQueryOptionexpand),
[`$select`](#SystemQueryOptionselect),
[`$filter`](#SystemQueryOptionfilter), or
[`$orderby`](#SystemQueryOptionorderby). Computed properties are expanded or selected according to their instance-specific type. A computed property is ignored by `$expand` if its instance-specific value is neither a stream, an entity, nor a collection of entities, and the service cannot determine this based on the compute expression.

Computed properties SHOULD be included as dynamic properties in the result without being explicitly mentioned in `$expand` or `$select`, or implied by star (`*`).
```

or within a [`$filter`](#SystemQueryOptionfilter) or
[`$orderby`](#SystemQueryOptionorderby) expression.

Computed properties SHOULD be included as dynamic properties in the result.
Computed properties whose value is a stream, an entity, or a collection of entities MUST be included if `$expand` is specified with the computed property name.
Computed properties whose value is an entity or a collection of entities MUST be included if `$expand` is specified with star (`*`).

> Computed properties with other values MUST be included if `$select` is specified with the computed property name or star (`*`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Computed properties with types other than stream, entity, or collection of entity MUST be included if `$select` is specified with the computed property name or star (`*`).
```

or within a [`$filter`](#SystemQueryOptionfilter) or
[`$orderby`](#SystemQueryOptionorderby) expression.

Computed properties SHOULD be included as dynamic properties in the result.

> Computed properties whose value is a stream, an entity, or a collection of entities MUST be included if `$expand` is specified with the computed property name or star (`*`).

Reviewer 2: `$expand=*` does not expand stream properties, they must be explicitly named.

Reviewer: Discussion 2025-3-12: Expanding streams was added after expand=*. The server is always allowed to expand more than requested, but requiring expand=* to include streams is arguably not backward compatible.

Most compatible solution would be to continue the current definition of expand=* not including streams; streams must be explicitly enumerated.
